let's now speak to Chris gunis who's the
former Chief spokesperson for the United
Nations relief and works Agency for
Palestine unra uh he's joining us from
London thank you so much for being with
us we heard gaza's Health Ministry say
today that in just a few hours many
hospitals across the strip will stop
operating because fuel in their
generators will have run out and this is
coming at a crucial time when we're
seeing so many more casualties from
these Israeli air strikes you know this
territory very well well how how much
help is left really how much resources
are left to help those who are in need
right
now well make no mistake Gaza is being
transformed as we speak from what a
former British prime minister once
called the world's largest open air
prison into the world's largest open air
death camp and to answer your questions
specifically Gaza is staring into an
abyss fuel which is what what will keep
the water plant the pumping station open
that has run out so water the basic
element of life is really not available
to 2.2 million people as a question of
as a matter of direct political Choice
the Israeli defense minister made it
very clear that the blockade of Gaza
would be absolute we know that about 150
trucks have been Le in since the 21st of
October it is not enough and what we're
seeing now is not just a catastrophe but
a catastrophe of choice why aren't more
a trucks being led
in I beg your pardon why aren't more Aid
trucks being led in what's of course
there's a bombing but well that that is
a very good question and the real
question is why isn't more pressure
being put on Israel to allow more Aid
trucks in at the moment the UN is saying
that a 100 trucks a day is what they
need actually before this present round
of fighting unra was taking in
500 trucks a day now I've actually been
through the raff of Crossing it's one
single Lane in One Direction and one
single Lane in another and Israel bombed
it in the early days of this conflict
what we need to do is open What's called
the Kum Shalom crossing point which is
like a huge industrial multi-lane trans
shipment Point into Gaza and that would
allow the necessary volumes of Aid to
get through but unless and until that
happens I'm afraid we're going to start
seeing waterborne diseases we're going
to start seeing communicable diseases
we're going to start seeing forget you
know not just the the women and the
babies who need this um hospital care
but we're going to see Ordinary People
in the streets starting to die and that
in my view is completely unconscionable
we need to get 500 trucks a day as unra
was doing before this violence into Gaza
you talked about the Rafa Crossing uh Mr
Gunners and there was a glimmer of hope
earlier today when we saw some injured
people leave Gaza uh through the Rafa
Crossing to get into Egypt how how much
relief does opening that b uh Crossing
bring even if to a limited number of
people I mean it's infinitely small and
so so below what is actually needed we
need complete and unhindered
humanitarian access nothing short of
that is going to avoid the looming
catastrophe and let no world leader
whoever they may be say they did not
know the world has seen and and what
we're seeing arguably is the start of a
genocide I know there's been talked
about genocide and I'm not saying there
is necessarily a genocide but it's an
obligation on all signatories to the
genocide convention to prevent genocide
and this kind of mass displacement which
we may see is pre genocidal and we have
to stop it we have to have full
humanitarian access into and out of the
Gaza Street Mr gnus thank you so much
for talking to us Chris gnus is the
former Chief spokesperson for unra the
United Nations relief and works Agency
for Palestine thank you for your
time my pleasure